doc(changelog): update changelog for 0.6.0 (#7460)
ipfs/go-ipfs: CHANGELOG.md

# go-ipfs changelog

## v0.6.0 2020-06-16

### Highlights

> This is a relatively small release in terms of code changes, but it contains some large changes with respect to the protocol. The highlights in this release include:

Reviewer: Minor reword

```suggestion
This is a relatively small release in terms of code changes, but it contains some significant modifications with respect to protocols. The highlights in this release include:
```

> This is a relatively small release in terms of code changes, but it contains some large changes with respect to the protocol. The highlights in this release include:

Reviewer: Minor reword

```suggestion
This is a relatively small release in terms of code changes, but it contains some significant modifications with respect to protocols. The highlights in this release include:
```

Author: Does "significant changes to the IPFS protocol" make more sense?

* The QUIC transport is enabled by default. Furthermore, go-ipfs will automatically run a migration to listen on the QUIC transport (on the same address/port as the TCP transport) to make this upgrade process seamless.

> * The new NOISE security transport is now supported but won't be selected by default. This transport will replace SECIO as the default cross-language interoperability security transport. TLS 1.3 will still remain the default go-ipfs to go-ipfs security transport for now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The new NOISE security transport is now supported but won't be selected by default. This transport will replace SECIO as the default cross-language interoperability security transport. TLS 1.3 will still remain the default security transport between go-ipfs nodes for now.
```

> **MIGRATION:** This release contains a small config migration to enable QUIC by default. This migration will:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**MIGRATION:** This release contains a small config migration to enable QUIC alongside the configured TCP transport. This migration will:
```

* Normalize multiaddrs in the bootstrap list to use the `/p2p/Qm...` syntax for multiaddrs instead of the `/ipfs/Qm...` syntax.
* Add QUIC addresses for the default bootstrapers, as necessary. If you've removed the default bootstrappers from your bootstrap config, the migration won't add them back.
* Add a QUIC listener address to mirror any TCP addresses present in your config. For example, if you're listening on `/ip4/0.0.0.0/tcp/1234`, this migration will add a listen address for `/ip4/0.0.0.0/udp/1234/quic`.

> #### QUIC by default

Author: @marten-seemann LGTY? Additions?

Reviewer 2: LGTM.

* Because it's UDP based instead of TCP based, it uses fewer file descriptors. The QUIC transport will open one UDP socket per listen address instead of one socket per connection. This should, in the future, allow us to keep more connections open.
* Because QUIC connections don't consume file descriptors, we're able to remove the rate limit on outbound QUIC connections, further speeding up DHT queries.

Unfortunately, this change isn't without drawbacks: the QUIC transport may not be able to max out some links (usually due to [poorly tuned kernel parameters](https://github.com/lucas-clemente/quic-go/issues/2586#issuecomment-639247615)). On the other hand, it may also be _faster_ in some cases

If you hit this performance issue on Linux, you should tune the `net.core.rmem_default` and `net.core.rmem_max` sysctl parameters to increase your UDP receive buffer sizes.

> **NOTE:** The QUIC transport included in this release is backwards incompatible with the experimental QUIC transport included in previous releases. Unfortunately, the QUIC protocol underwent some significant breaking changes and supporting multiple versions wasn't an option. In practice, practice as go-ipfs will simply fall back on the TCP transport when dialing nodes with incompatible QUIC versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** The QUIC transport included in this release is backwards incompatible with the experimental QUIC transport included in previous releases. Unfortunately, the QUIC protocol underwent some significant breaking changes and supporting multiple versions wasn't an option. In practice this degrades gracefully, as go-ipfs will simply fall back on the TCP transport when dialing nodes with incompatible QUIC versions.
```

> #### NOISE Transport

Author: @yusefnapora could you motivate the NOISE transport?

* Quick "why noise"?

#### Gateway

> 

Author: cc @lidel

Reviewer 3: Wrote a few words in https://github.com/ipfs/go-ipfs/commit/fa65b71bdc3f492d6f7c3ec803ce0fcf12dd4548 – feel free to edit / let me know if that's enough.

* Base36 support.
* 404 pages

#### Gossipsub Upgrade

> 

Author: cc @vyzo

Reviewer 4: You want me to write this or will you do that?

Author: Yes, if you have anything to say on the topic (just a headline, really).

Author: Eh, I wrote a small blurb. Feel free to submit a PR to extend it.

* Summary paragraph and a link to the blog post?

#### Connectivity

> 

Author: @Stebalien

* "Peering" support.

#### Libp2p Changes

> 

Author: @stebalien (aarsh is offline)
